[Educational Notes] Start adding educational notes for data-race safety. (#79509)
swiftlang/swift: userdocs/diagnostics/sending-closure-risks-data-race.md

# Sending closure risks causing data races

> If a type does not conform to `Sendable` the compiler will enforce that each instance of that type is only accessed by one concurrency domain at a time. The compiler will also prevent you from capturing values in closures that are sent to another concurrency domain if the value can be accessed from the original concurrency domain too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a type does not conform to `Sendable` the compiler enforces that each instance of that type is only accessed by one concurrency domain at a time. The compiler will prevent you from capturing values in closures that are sent to another concurrency domain if the value can be accessed from the original concurrency domain too.
```

> If a type does not conform to `Sendable` the compiler will enforce that each instance of that type is only accessed by one concurrency domain at a time. The compiler will also prevent you from capturing values in closures that are sent to another concurrency domain if the value can be accessed from the original concurrency domain too.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a type does not conform to `Sendable`, the compiler will enforce that each instance of that type is only accessed by one concurrency domain at a time. The compiler will also prevent you from capturing values in closures that are sent to another concurrency domain if the value can be accessed from the original concurrency domain too.
```

For example:

```swift
class MyModel {
  func perform() {
    Task {
      self.update()
    }
  }

  func update() { ... }
}
```

> Building with complete concurrency checking will diagnose the capture of `self` in the task closure:

Reviewer: The phrase "with complete concurrency checking" shows up multiple times through these notes - is it safe to assume that IF they're seeing these notes, they have such checking enabled? Some of the writing elsewhere in these notes seems to be assuming they're using complete concurrency checking.

If that's a safe assumption, this could be more direct with something like:
```The compiler diagnoses the capture of `self` in the task closure:```

Author: That's totally fair, and we can leave which configurations produce which errors to the migration guide. I'll remove the "with complete concurrency checking" language from all of the educational notes.

```
| class MyModel {
|   func perform() {
|     Task {
|     `- error: passing closure as a 'sending' parameter risks causing data races between code in the current task and concurrent execution of the closure
|       self.update()
|            `- note: closure captures 'self' which is accessible to code in the current task
|     }
|   }
```

> This code is invalid because the task that calls `perform()` runs concurrently with the task that calls `update()`. The `MyModel` type does not conform to `Sendable`, so this means the concurrent tasks can access mutable state simultaneously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code is invalid because the task that calls `perform()` runs concurrently with the task that calls `update()`. The `MyModel` type isn't marked as conforming to `Sendable`, which tells the compiler that the concurrent tasks could access mutable state simultaneously.
```

> To eliminate the risk of data races, all tasks that can access the `MyModel` instance must be serialized. The easiest way to accomplish this is to isolate `MyModel` to a global actor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To eliminate the risk of data races, all tasks that can access the `MyModel` instance must be serialized. The easiest way to accomplish this is to isolate `MyModel` to a global actor, such as `MainActor`:
```

```swift
@MainActor
class MyModel {
  func perform() {
    Task {
      self.update()
    }
  }

  func update() { ... }
}
```

This resolves the data race because the two tasks that can access the `MyModel` value must switch to the main actor to access its state and methods.

The other approach to resolving the error is to ensure that only one task has access to the `MyModel` value at a time. For example:

```swift
class MyModel {
  static func perform(model: sending MyModel) {
    Task {
      model.update()
    }
  }

  func update() { ... }
}
```

> This code is safe from data races because the caller of `perform` cannot access the `model` parameter again after the call. The `sending` parameter modifier indicates that the implementation of the function will send the value to a difference concurrency domain, so it's no longer safe to access the value in the caller. This ensures that only one task has access to the value at a time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code is safe from data races because the caller of `perform` cannot access the `model` parameter again after the call. The `sending` parameter modifier indicates that the implementation of the function sends the value to a different concurrency domain, so it's no longer safe to access the value in the caller. This ensures that only one task has access to the value at a time.
```
